# UFLDashboard
This project involved creating a dashboard to track the performance of UFL players.. 

It is split into two sections- the dashboard and the scraper.

The scraper is written in Python and is a combination of beautifulsoup, selenium, and pandas. Due to the UFL website using dynamic loading for its data, it is necessary to use Selenium.

Selenium is run in headless mode, and is used to open the page, move to the relevant page, and scrape each page of the table. The page needs to be cycled using the Next button in order to get more than just 10 players. The process starts on the passing table, scraping each page of the table via BeautifulSoup while using selenium to click the next button. Then, selenium clicks to the receiving table, repeats the process, and finally clicks to the rushing table, repeating the process one final time. Each time BeautifulSoup scrapes the table, it appends the resulting rows to a corresponding list, and once each page of the table is scraped, it converts the list to a Pandas DataFrame. Once the DataFrame is created, calculated columns are created. Once all of the DataFrames have been created, a Pandas ExcelWriter object is used to update the corresponding excel file.

The dashboard tracks Passing, Rushing, and Receiving statistics. 

The passing page is filtered to exclude players with less than 5 attempts. This ensures that the tables only display players who got at least one drive of action. For example, not filtering in this way would cause Brad Wing to be included. However, Brad Wing is a punter, who has one throw for a 40-yard touchdown. As impressive as that is, it doesn't qualify him to be compared to quarterbacks. There are three visuals- yards(a bar chart), touchdowns(column chart), and a comparison of catch rate and average yards(scatter chart). The reason the bar chart is the biggest is that it creates a reliable way to track production of a given quarterback. The accompanying charts provide context to this production. For example, it is very clear from the graphs that Luis Perez, Jordan Ta'amu, Adrian Martinez, and AJ McCarron are substantially better than their peers. Quinten Dormady is 300 yards short of McCarron's total, which seems like a small difference. However, McCarron has 150% more touchdowns than Dormady. This shows McCarron is significantly better at scoring, which clarifies that McCarron is a far better QB than Dormady. The scatter chart is a combination of two calculated columns- completion rate(the rate at which their passes are successful), and Avg/Completion(average yards gained by their passes). This provides additional context to a quarterback's general performance. For instance, Lindsey Scott's high position looks impressive, however his position far to the left shows he has one of the lowest averages in the league. This means he's exceptionally accurate, but not particularly productive for gains. Further scrutinizing his performance shows he has 48 total yards, and 1 touchdown. This suggests that he's a quarterback used in situations where starting player Luis Perez is benched against a weak opponent. Further scrutinizing shows he has 7 total attempts, indicating that he indeed plays in rare situations, usually when the game is already won. 

Similarly, the receiving page is filtered to exclude players with less than 5 targets. This way, any players included got more than one drive. Similar to the passing stats, the page has a bar chart for total yards, a column chart for touchdowns, and a scatter chart comparing catch rate and average yards per catch. In the same way the total yards chart counts production of a player, the accompanying charts provide context to this production. For example, this clearly demonstrates that Hakeem Butler is the league's best receiver, leading the league in yards, tying 2nd for touchdowns, and is above the median for both catch rate(the rate at which a receiver catches their targets, calculated using Pandas) and average yards per catch(also calculated using Pandas). It also reveals an interesting trend- with the exception of Butler, none of the top 5 scorers are in the top 5 yard producers. This means that players like JP Payton are undervalued by yardage ranking. Although he fails to make the top 10, he ties for second overall in touchdowns and averages 16 yards per catch with a catch rate just under 60%. This suggests he gets few targets, but is very productive with the targets he gets.

The rushing page is formatted differently, as rushing works differently. Whereas passing and receiving have two dimensions, rushing only has one dimension. As such, it doesn't provide an opportunity to create a scatter chart as seen elsewhere. Rather, the rushing page contains a bar chart to measure yards gained, and two column charts for context- average per attempt, and touchdowns gained. Doing this demonstrates several different types of running backs in the UFL. Adrian Martinez is the most productive running back in the UFL and has the highest average gain per rush at 9.8. However, his rushing touchdowns(3) are surpassed by 11 other players. Of note, Martinez is actually a quarterback. His position as the best running back in the league and 3rd best quarterback in the league explains why he got UFL MVP. Jacob Saylors has the 2nd most yards gained rushing, but his average of 4.9 yards per carry is #15 in the UFL. His value, however, is not in gaining yardage. His value is short bursts, as exemplified by his 5 touchdowns, tied with 4 other players for 2nd overall. He doesn't carry the ball for a long distance and get a first down, he carries the ball for a short distance and scores a touchdown. This is similar to Ricky Person Jr. Person led the league in rushing touchdowns(6) and ranks 7th overall in total yards. However, his 3.2 yard average places him just outside the bottom 10 of the league. Person's value is when the team is a short distance to a conversion/first down, and needs him to force it through. He's designed for force, not finesse. On the opposite end of the spectrum is Keke Coutee. Coutee tied for second highest average overall at 9.0, however only produce 81 total yards of rushing and 1 touchdown. This demonstrates that Coutee's value as a rusher is in his ability to produce gains in the open field, but is unable to produce on short bursts near the endzone. This makes sense when you consider that Coutee's primary role is as a wide receiver, where he produced a similar average(9.6) and zero touchdowns. 
